---
layout: media
title: New in 2015
categories: Articles
comments: true
analytics: true

image:
  teaser: stwebindex2.jpg
  feature: stwebindex2.jpg
  credit: Jon Weiler
  creditlink:  
---
 
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YXXKhY7UcPc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
 
We are now two weeks away from the STX: Daybreaker at the NRA Whittington Center in NE New Mexico.  Two weeks!  We are implementing some changes with Survival Trial this year, to broaden the experience of every Competitor.  Daybreaker is the first experience with this and I am very excited!  

Survival Trial is an adventure race – it is an Adventure.  It will give you the opportunity to push yourself to the limit.  Ultimately, it is up to you though.  I create an Arena, an area to work in and populate it with Defensive Shooting Scenarios, Emergency Response Situations, Puzzles/Problems to Solve and Role Players; all with the intent to challenge you beyond anything that you have experienced before. 


Survival Trial is constantly evolving.  Every finished Trial yields a new challenge for me, to create something fresh and new.  We see so many return Competitors, which is what I enjoy the most.  I get to know so many unique and strong individuals.  But this is the challenge for me, to present Survival Trial to them in a new light.  


# Things that I have changed for 2015:

## Equipment List Requirements:

I have received more feedback on this, due to the overall cost of Competing in a Trial.  You will need some basic items just to function in the ST Arenas, like a pack, map protractor and something to carry water in, but it is small.  We will also start offering Staged Firearms at the individual Defensive Shooting Scenarios.  This means that you do not have to provide your own to compete. It also means that you do not have to shoot in Survival Trial if you do not want to.  I structure the 2015 Arenas so no one person will have an advantage in points. If you want to compete but not shoot, it does not mean that you will do poorly in the Trial.

If you are registered for a Trial and have the previous required packing list all ready to go, that means that you are 100% prepared for what you will encounter in the ST Arena.  If you are still amassing the items for it, you now have some leeway.  

> It also means **no more penalties** for packing list discrepencies…

Note:  If you do want to utilize the Staged Firearms you will be required to provide/carry your own ammunitition and attend a safety class the day prior to each Trial.  The Staged Firerarms are provided by Whittington U, the training division of the NRA Whittington Center.

# Knowing:

Another item of feedback has been the fact that you do not know what your points are until you reach the location.  Because we are making the shooting optional, you will know what you will encounter in the Arena when you receive you Team Packet as the race begins.  This way you will have the opportunity to utilize the best strategy in the ST Arena to maximize your strengths.  It also gives you the opportunity to try a Defensive Shooting Scenario if you are interested in firearms but may not have incorporated them into your lifestyle yet.

So we are now entering into another phase of evolution in Survival Trial.  It is open to anyone and everyone searching for a test in Life.  We all have an idea of what we are capable of but we will never really know until we are in the moment, experiencing a potentially life altering event.  Survival Trial offers the opportunity to know where you are, from the moment you step foot in the ST Arena.

## Come test yourself as a Solo Competitor or as a two-person Team.  
